                                        Understanding DeltaLake
ACID Transactions
Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability.

Healthcare scenario
The Delta Lake in Healthcare
  Delta Lake ensures organized, accurate, accessible data.
  Outperforms traditional data warehouses and lakes.
  Simplifies healthcare data management.
  Maintains data integrity and accessibility.

ACID: Ensures data integrity and reliable,consistent processing.
Delta Lake ensures accurate handling of patient updates.
It prevents incomplete records and data errors.
Supports reliable data for patient safetyand care.

Schema enforcement and evolution
  Ensures data integrity in patient care.
  Adapts as patient records change.
  Prevents workflow disruptions and data corruption.

Time travel feature
  Access previous versions of data for historical review
  Ensures accurate tracking of past treatments
  Importance of maintaining a comprehensive patient care history

Unified batch and streaming processing
  Delta Lake's support for both real-time monitoring and batch processing
  Reduces redundancy and processing complexity

Delta Lake architecture
  Overview of Delta Tables as secure electronic health records
  Transaction log ensures reliability and time travel capabilities
  Parquet files for quick access and analysis

Comparisons
   Data warehousing struggles with unstructured data
   Data lakes lack structure without management
-> Delta Lake combines structure with flexibility, ideal for healthcare




                                      Persistence and scope of tables
What is table persistence?
  Table persistence controls data storage and retention.
  It affects storage, access, and maintenance.
  Databricks supports managed and unmanaged tables.

Managed tables in Databricks
  Fully managed by Databricks, including data location and lifecycle.
  Automatically deletes data when the table is deleted.
  Suitable for simple, centralized data management.

Unmanaged tables in Databricks
  Decentralized approach
  Control the data storage location and lifecycle
  Deleting an unmanaged table doesn't delete the data
  Useful for custom storage or compliance requirements

The LOCATION keyword
Essential for setting data storage in unmanaged tables.
Storage location impacts cost, retrieval times, and retention policies.

        CREATE TABLE table_name (
        column_name data_type,
        ...
        )
        USING file_format
        LOCATION 'path/to/data';

Key takeaways
  Managed tables centralize storage and lifecycle within Databricks.
  Unmanaged tables offer flexibility for storage and data lifecycle.
  Choose based on data storage, control, and management needs.
