                                              Motivation
Data Warehouses
  Great for SQL workloads
  Typically expensive
  Proprietary technologies
  Limited capabilities and integrations

Data Lakes
  Great for non-SQL workloads
  Cost effective, lackluster performance
  Open-source technologies
  Unlimited capabilities

                                      Data warehousing in the Lakehouse
Benefits
Single architecture for all workloads
Flexibility and ownership with data
Open-source technologies
    Delta
    ANSI SQL
Cost effective solution

Business Intelligence ecosystem
Integrate directly with your BI tool of choice
    Partner Connect
    Databricks Connect
    JDBC / ODBC
Performance and scalability
Keep users where they are


                                                  EXPLORING DATABRICKS SQL
EXPLORING SOME DATA
1. Navigate to the Catalog section of the platform.
Expand the databricks_ws... catalog, and then the default schema.
Finally, select the insurance table.

2. While viewing the insurance table, you can view a sample of the data directly by navigating to the Sample Data tab.
Since we want to do more analysis on the dataset, create a new Query using the Create button in the top-right corner. This will take you to the SQL Editor section of the platform.

3. Your code editor will now show the standard select all query for the insurance dataset.
Update the query to determine how many rented houses (HOUSE_TYPE = "Rent") have a high risk segmentation (RISK_SEGMENTATION = "H").
Standarf Query:
--select * from `databricks_ws_9651b0e3_2185_427d_945b_e66e5c903dc2`.`default`.`insurance` limit 100;

Updated Query:
select * from `databricks_ws_9651b0e3_2185_427d_945b_e66e5c903dc2`.`default`.`insurance` where HOUSE_TYPE = "Rent" and RISK_SEGMENTATION = "H"

4. How many claims were for rented homes and were from high-risk customers?
R//: 505




PARTNER CONNECT
While Databricks has great capabilities to explore data, many users want to connect 
their existing BI tools.

In this exercise, we will explore using Partner Connect to create a
production-quality connection between a Databricks SQL Warehouse and a BI tool

1. Navigate to the Marketplace option using the menu on the left-hand side.
2. Explore some of the different integrations that are possible with different technology partners.
3. Navigate to the BI section and click on Power BI Desktop.
    Click on the "Connect" button.
    Select Serverless Starter Warehouse as the compute option.
    Click Download connection file.
      -This file will allow Power BI to connect with the selected Databricks SQL Warehouse.
4. Which of the following best describes how Partner Connect enables users to connect Power BI to Databricks?
R//: Creates a Power BI dataset which lets Power BI sends querys directly to a Databrikcs SQL Warehouse.
Correct, By creating a connection file, Partner Connect gives Power BI the scalability, governance, and performance of a Databricks SQL Warehouse.


                                            Databricks SQL key assets
Helpful analogy
- A tree consists of many different components, all of which make up the entire entity
- In Databricks SQL, different components combine into a data warehouse solution

Query
The base "unit" of analysis in DatabricksSQL
Runs SQL code against compute
Uses ANSI SQL standard
Process data from:
  Unity Catalog
  Delta tables
  Data lake files
  Data streams

SQL Warehouse
Compute cluster dedicated for SQL
Optimizations (e.g. Photon)
Simpler administration
Easy scaling
Queries and BI tools

Tables versus views
Tables
  Physical manifestations of datasets
  Written in Delta format
  Readable and accessible outside of the
  data pipeline
  Can optimize data layout (partitioning, etc.)
Views
  Virtual representations of query results in Unity Catalog
  Fast performance for reading data
  Great for simplifying downstream queries
    Source query has many joins, filters, etc.
  Incremental data processing available

Visualizations and dashboards
Visualizations
  Visual representations of a query result
  Created relative to a single query
Dashboards
  Collection of several visualizations
  Across multiple datasets / query results



Create a query
In this exercise, we will run a simple query to get familiar with the platform for SQL users.

We know that, in Databricks SQL, the query is the core of all our analysis. 
As a data analyst, we want to be very comfortable understanding our 
way around the SQL Editor, the area of the platform where we can write different queries based on our data.

1. Navigate to the SQL Editor portion of the Databricks platform, and create a new query.
Name it "Average_Premiums".
2. If needed, connect your SQL Editor to a SQL Warehouse using the compute dropdown button above the code area.
In order to avoid having to write out the catalog and schema name each time, you can select the required catalog and schema from the dropdown menus next to the Run button.
3. 
  -Write a query that returns the average PREMIUM_AMOUNT by STATE using the 
  insurance table located within in default schema of your user catalog.
  -Make sure the average is rounded to two decimal places.
  -Now, run the query
4. What is the average premium cost for a customer in the state of Arizona? Answer format: $XX.XX
R//: 89.47




Build a visualization
Now that we've written an initial query, let's expand our analysis with a visualization. Imagine a colleague asks:

  To ensure more equitable premiums across customers, can you identify the lowest 
  and highest outliers for average premiums in each state?

Queries are great for creating tabular datasets but spotting insights in tables is often hard.
To build on our query, let's create a visualization that makes it easier to explore the results.

1. Locate your "Average_Premiums" query created in the previous exercise.
    If you can't find this, find and use "ex_ch1_9_build_a_visualization" from the Queries section.

2. On this query, create a new visualization.
    Click on the + icon above the query results, and select Visualization.

3. Specify this visualization as a horizontal bar chart. Configure the chart according to the below criteria:
    X columns: avg(PREMIUM_AMOUNT)
    Y column: STATE
    Make sure the X columns aggregation is set to Sum.

4.  Under the Data Labels option, make sure to enable the data labels option.
Save this visualization and call it "Average Premium by State".

5. Which pair of responses specify the states that have the lowest and highest average premiums (respectively)?
R//: OK, GA.
